Skip to main content
edX Home Page
HKUSTx: COMP107x Introduction to Mobile Application Development using Android Dashboard for:Profile image for rdm750 rdm750 More options dropdown Help
Home
Course , current location
Discussion
Progress
Course Outline
Grading Scheme
Resources
 Bookmarks
Pre-course Materials
Week 1: Android Overview
Week 2: Activity Lifecycle and UI
Week 3: 2D Graphics
Week 4: Multimedia
Week 5: Networking
Android Networking
Exercise: Handling JSON in Android
Javascript Object Notation (JSON)
Exercise: AsyncTask for Background Processing
AsyncTask
Setting up a Server on your Machine using NodeJS current section
Exercise: Android HTTP
Networking Support in Android
Assignment: Asynchronous Loading of Images
Week 05 Assignment due May 31, 2016 at 15:59 UTC This content is graded
Week 5: Networking > Setting up a Server on your Machine using NodeJS > Textual Instructions
Previous Unit
 other Description 	 other Textual Instructions 
Next Subsection
 Click to add  Bookmark
Textual Instructions

Step 1: Installing NodeJS

To install NodeJS on your machine, go to https://nodejs.org and click on the Install button. Depending on your computer's platform (Windows, MacOS or Linux), the appropriate installation package is downloaded. Follow along the instructions to install NodeJS on your machine.

Step 2: Downloading Server Configuration Files

Download server.zip and unzip it at a convenient location on your machine. This will create a sub-folder named server on your machine that contains the configuration files for running a server on your machine. Move to this folder on your machine.

Step 3: Setting up JSON-Server

Open a terminal window on your machine. If you are using a Windows machine, open a cmd window or PowerShell window with admin privileges.
To ensure that your NodeJS setup is working correctly, type the following at the command prompt to check for the version of Node and NPM.

node -v

npm -v


At the command prompt type the following to install a simple JSON server package in NodeJS.

npm install -g json-server

Note: On MacOS and Linux you may need to add sudo in front of the command. When you are prompted by sudo, just type in your password in the window to proceed with the installation.
Step 4: Starting your Server

To start your server, move to the server folder that you created by unzipping the configuration files in Step 2 above, then type the following at the command prompt.

json-server --watch db.json

To check that your server is running correctly and serving up the JSON string, type the url below into any browser window.

 http://localhost:3000/people

Note down the IP address of your computer because you need to configure this in the code of the next exercise.
You can also cross-check by typing the url below into a browser window to ensure that your server is running correctly. This should show the JSON string in your browser window.

http://<Your machine's IP address>:3000/people

Finding your Machine's IP address

If you are using a Microsoft Windows based machine, you can use the instructions available at http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/find-computers-ip-address#1TC=windows-7 to find your machine's IP address.
On a Mac, go to System Preferences->Network to find the IP address of your network adapter.
 

Previous UnitNext Subsection
© All Rights Reserved
ABOUT EDX
edX logo
About Blog News Help Center Contact Careers Donate Sitemap
Terms of Service & Honor Code Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy
© edX Inc. All rights reserved except where noted. EdX, Open edX and the edX and Open EdX logos are registered trademarks or trademarks of edX Inc.
Powered by Open edX
Like edX on Facebook Follow edX on Twitter Subscribe to the edX YouTube channel Follow edX on LinkedIn Follow edX on Google+ Subscribe to the edX subreddit Download the edX mobile app from the Apple App Store Download the edX mobile app from Google Play
AxmTYklsjo190QWAxmTYklsjo190QW
AxmTYklsjo190QWAxmTYklsjo190QW
